[DM-29082] Initial version (#1)
lsst-dm/dmtn-234: index.rst

The InCommon_ federation will be supported for the IDF and CDF.
Other federations may be supported.

.. _InCommon: https://incommon.org/

A new user of a general access deployment will go through an enrollment process.
This process will gather the user's identity information as released by their federated identity provider (name, email, and institutional affiliation), and allow the user to select a username for use with the Science Platform.
Usernames will be unique across the Science Platform and must satisfy the requirements given in DMTN-225_.
If the user chooses, they can also specify a name and email address for the Science Platform to use in preference to the one released by their identity provider.
The user will be required to verify that they can receive email at the email address they specify.

At the conclusion of enrollment, the user will have a pending account on that Science Platform but will not yet have access.
The user must then be approved for access to the Science Platform.
That approval process will place the user in an appropriate access group for their data rights, as determined by the approver.

> This decision will usually based primarily on their institutional affiliation, but possibly based on other data gathered outside of the identity management system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This decision will be taken according to observatory policy, but could be based on institutional affiliation and/or data obtained from outside the identity management system.
```

> Approvers may be Science Platform administrators or delegates who have the knowledge and authority to verify the data rights of a particular community of users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Approvers will be project staff who have the knowledge and authority to verify the data rights of a particular community of users. Technical expertise in the identity management system is not required. 
```

The authentication service will also automatically refresh the service token to ensure that it does not expire.

As specified in DMTN-225_, the usernames associated with all such tokens must begin with ``bot-``.

OpenID Connect authentication
-----------------------------

Some Science Platform deployments run third-party services (Chronograf_, for example) that themselves want to do OpenID Connect authentication of the user.
To support those services, the authentication service of the Science Platform is also an OpenID Connect provider.
Such services can then point to the authentication service as the authentication provider, and those authentications will use the same source of identity as other authentications to the Science Platform.
(This authentication is independent of any use of OpenID Connect by the authentication service to a federated or local identity provider external to the Science Platform, although the two authentications will be chained together when needed.)

.. _Chronograf: https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/chronograf/

> At present, OpenID Connect authentication used in this fashion does not do any access control.

Reviewer: Is there an actual path to doing otherwise?

Author: Yes: we could associate OpenID Connect clients with required scopes and refuse to authenticate the user if they're missing that scope. There will be more discussion of this in SQR-069.
